SQL = Structured Query Language
CRUD = Create Read Update Delete

SQL is not a procedural language.  You can't write a complete application with it.

ER Diagrams / ER Model : Is composed of entity types and specifies relationships that can exist between instances of those entity types.  Entity Relationship 

What is the problem that you're trying to solve?  Think before you code.  You'll get more accurate results, speed up your work, and have less rework.

A database is a container (not a docker container, usually a set of files or a file) to store organized data; a set of related information.

Tables:  A structured list of data or a specific type.

Column: A single field in a table - all tables are made up of one or more columns.  Row: A record in a table.

Data modeling is the organization and structure of information into multiple related tables.  This can represent a business process or show relationships between business processes.  This Should closely represent the real world.

NoSQL is not only Not Structured, it has also come to mean Not Only SQL.

A relational Model allows for easy querying and data manipulation in an easy, logical, and intuitive way.

A transactional Model is an operational database - think of an insurance company storing ALL claims in a database.

A Primary Key in a table is a column (or set of columns) whose values uniquely identify every row in a table.
A Foreign Key is one or more columns that can be used together to identify a single row in another table.

When defining a table.
Every column can accept NULL or NOT NULL values.  A PRIMARY KEY cannot have NULL values.

Temporary tables are deleted when the current session is terminated.  They're faster than creating a real table.  They allow you to simplify complex queries.

You can UPDATE or DELETE a table.  Think add/delete columns, etc.

Normalization is the process to eliminate data redundancy and enhance data integrity in the table. Normalization also helps to organize the data in the database. It is a multi-step process that sets the data into tabular form and removes the duplicated data from the relational tables.

Normalization organizes the columns and tables of a database to ensure that database integrity constraints properly execute their dependencies. It is a systematic technique of decomposing tables to eliminate data redundancy (repetition) and undesirable characteristics like Insertion, Update, and Deletion anomalies.

Star Architecture
Snowflake Architecture

