In this coursera course, we're using MYSQL data types.

Use the right data types: if you want to do a math problem, don't store a number in a string.

Pick the right storage sizes.  It's important to pick sizes that you actually need.

When it comes to text data types, you may need to think about the size of the string in the future - it may not work for all.  You may need to leave room for parameters later.

We can automate queries to add new events to a table or a view.

Remove events generated while testing internally (keep your data clean).  Trim long tail categorical data.  Replace NULLS with appropriate values.

You can build a table containing AB testing metrics.

DESCRIBE table_name;

INSERT INTO table (QUERY);
REPLACE INTO table (QUERY);
In hive, the REPLACE INTO is INSERT OVERWRITE.

Queries best practices: Invest your time to make sure that your query is effecient; use appropriate table structure - updating rows or adding parameters like memory usage; optimizing techniques are specific to the database setup you are working with; check out classes on Spark if you are interested in this area.

HIVE SQL is also known as HQL.  Partitions are feattures of hadoop.  Think of partitions as presorting your data into folders.  It doesn't change the way you query your table.
INSERT INTO TABLE
items_orders
(PARTITION category)
SELECT
    id,
    item_name,
    order_count,
    category
FROM ...

If you're going to query or update parts of your data very, very frequently.  Then consider partitioning your data.
When to partition: an example is to partition by date.  If you frequently query a table for just recent dates.
    WHERE day >= date_add(CURDATE(), INTERVAL -1 month)

Then a partition on day will help you avoid a full table scan.

Some final tips: trim down your subqueries and joins with 'extra' conditions; don't over-partition your data, at some point scanning directories in directories is less effecient, pick partitions that have roughly similar sizes to prevent a single partition from slowing the query down.

